Good evening, everyone. It is evening, isn’t it? (Laughter.) This around the world in five days is interesting, isn’t it?

Well, you know, there is that — one of my staff members said, “Remember the famous song, you know, ‘Good Morning, Vietnam’?” Well, good evening, Vietnam. And good morning back in America.

Before we begin, I want to express my sadness by the loss of life and devastation caused by the earthquake in Morocco. Our thoughts and prayers are with the people of Morocco and my friend King Mohammed VII — VI, I should say.

And his admini- — my administration — including Secretary of State Blinken, who is here with me today — is working with Moroccan officials on long distance here. We’re working expeditiously to ensure American citizens in Morocco are safe, standing ready to provide any necessary assistance to the Moroccan people as well. We’ve made that offer.

Now, turning to the important visit here in Vietnam. As the General Secretary and I just shared earlier today, this trip has been a historic moment.

Today, we can trace 50-year — a 50-year arc of progress in the relationship between our nations from conflict to normalization. This is a new elevated status that will be a force for prosperity and security in one of the most consequential regions in the world.

We’ve elevated our cooperation directly to the Vietnamese’s highest tier of partnership, referred to as the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. That means the United States has strengthened our ties with another critical Indo-Pacific partner.

Our progress today builds on the Camp David trilateral with
Japan and — and the Republic of Korea and the United States; the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership the United States launched with — with ASEAN last year; and the engagement with Pacific Islands — with the Pacific Islands Forum; our strengthened alliances with the Philippines; and AUKUS partnership with Australia and the United Kingdom; our elevated Quad engagement with India, Australia, and Japan; and the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity; and all the effort we’ve advanced from day one of my administration to demonstrate to our Indo-Pacific partners and to the world that the United States is a Pacific nation, and we’re not going anywhere.

Now, let me also speak to a significant business we got done in the In- — in India during the G20 Summit.

This was an important moment for the United States to demonstrate our global leadership and our commitment to solving the challenges that matter most to people around the world: investing in inclusive growth and sustainable development, addressing the climate crisis, strengthening food security and education, advancing global health and health security.

We showed up ready to work, and we showed the world the United States is a partner with a positive vision for our shared future.

As a G20, we — at the G20, we made progress on issues like multilateral development bank reform to get to those nations that are neither poor nor wealthy but were — couldn’t qualify before; debt relief; and increased infrastructure needs not only in the Global South, but other parts of the world as well.

We forged a groundbreaking new partnership with — that will connect India to Europe with the Middle East and Israel, with transportation by rail and by shipment through — and energy supplies and digital connections that are going to open up untold opportunities for transformative economic investment through that en- — on that entire corridor.

We’ve also discussed Russia’s brutal and illegal war in Ukraine. And there was sufficient agreement in the room on the need for a just — for a just and lasting peace that upholds the principles of the U.N. Charter and respects sovereignty and territorial integrity.

I want to, once again, thank Prime Minister Modi for his leadership and his hospitality in hosting the G20.

He and I have had a substantial discussions about how we’re going to continue to strengthen the partnership between India and the United States, building on the Prime Minister’s visit to the White House last June.

And, as I always do, I raised the important — of respecting human rights and the vital role that civil society and a free press have in building a strong and prosperous country with Mr. Modi.

And we’re — have gotten a lot of important work done, and I’m looking forward to another good day tomorrow here in Vietnam.

And now, I will take your questions. Let me see. They told me — they gave me five people here.