Today we will discuss how the construction of museum, theatre and educational complexes is progressing here in Vladivostok, where we are now, as well as in Kemerovo, Sevastopol and Kaliningrad. As a reminder, this large cultural and educational project was launched in 2018.

According to the plan, cultural centres must include theatre and concert halls, museum and exhibition spaces, as well as modern premises for art and dance schools.

These cultural centres are created to increase the accessibility of the best examples of the musical, theatrical and fine arts for millions of people. And there will be additional opportunities in the regions to discover talent, above all for children and young people, of course.

For example, here in Vladivostok, on Russky Island, as Mr Trutnev told me, studies for students at the new educational complex began on September 1. The complex features branches of the Moscow State Academy of Choreography and the Central Music School and has well-equipped classes and rehearsal rooms, among other things.

Several education institutions in Kemerovo and Kaliningrad, created as part of this project, have also opened. This means that hundreds, and perhaps even thousands of children will be able to receive high-quality education in their home regions. Let me repeat, these institutions will help identify talent and provide support from the best mentors.

Let me stress that cultural clusters give a good boost to the comprehensive development of the regions in addition to their educational mission. Nearby public spaces, walking areas and parks become points of growth and attraction for locals and tourists. A modern, harmonious living environment is being created in cities thanks to cultural clusters and their projects for sports and landscaping, and the development of new creative industries in general.

And of course, the opening of new cultural complexes needs to be expedited. I know the problems in this area, and we have talked about this many times, both with Mr Khusnullin and those who are involved in this process in one way or another; I know about the problems that exist here. However, this process must be accelerated without compromising the quality of construction or equipment.

In total, cultural complexes in Kemerovo, Sevastopol, Kaliningrad and Vladivostok include 46 facilities. According to the materials presented, today, 29 of them have opened.

Today I would like to hear and discuss the status of the construction of the remaining facilities and when it is planned to complete them.